.TH "fcpget" "1" "0.2.5" "aum" "pyfcp - Freenet FCP tools"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
fcpget \- Retrieve a single key from Freenet
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
\fBfcpget\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIkey_uri\fP [\fIfilename\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
fcpget is a simple command\-line FCP client program for retrieving
single keys from Freenet. If a filename is supplied, the content
will be saved to that file; otherwise the standard output will be
used.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information and exit
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit
.TP 
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-fcpHost=<hostname>\fR
Use FCP interface at host <hostname>,
defaults to 127.0.0.1
.TP 
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-fcpPort=<port>\fR
Use FCP interface at port <port>
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout=<timeout>\fR
Set the timeout, in seconds, for completion. Default one year.
.TP 
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-priority=<priority>\fR
Sets priority to <priority>. Valid values are
0 (highest) to 6 (lowest). Default is 4.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-global\fR
Do it on the FCP global queue. This will let any client that is connected
to the node see and modify the request. 
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-persistence {connection, reboot, forever}\fR
Set the persistence type.
.RS
.TP
.B
connection
The request will run as long as the the client is connected.
.TP
.B
reboot
The request will run even if the client disconnects but will
stop if the node shuts down.
.TP
.B
forever
The request will keep going until it finishes, fails, or is removed.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBFCP_HOST\fP
Specifies the hostname of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-H'.
.TP 
\fBFCP_PORT\fP
Specifies the port number of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-P'.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
\fBfcpget KSK@somekey\fP
Retrieve key URI \fIKSK@somekey\fP from Freenet, and print its
data to standard output.
.TP 
\fBfcpget KSK@somekey filename.html\fP
Retrieve key URI \fIKSK@somekey\fP from Freenet, and save its
data to \fIfilename.html\fP
.SH "BUGS"
.LP
The support for asynchronous transfer is incomplete, making the
use of \*(lqreboot\*(rq or \*(lqforever\*(rq persistence useless.
If there is more than one file inserted under a given key, there
is no support for fetching all of them at once or to list them.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.LP
If you find a bug, please post it to the Freenet bug tracker at:
.RS
.LP    
https://bugs.freenetproject.org/bug_report_page.php
.RE
.LP
but first please be sure to target the 'pyFreenet' project, by
selecting 'pyFreenet' in the combobox on the top-right of the page.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The PyFCP applications and library were originally written
by David McNab (aum) in May-June, 2006 and are maintained
by the Freenet Project team.
.LP
Contact the original author at: <davidmcnabnz@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
fcpput(1) fcpredirect(1) freesitemgr(1)

