.TH "fcpgenkey" "1" "0.2.5" "aum" "pyfcp - Freenet FCP tools"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
fcpgenkey \- generate a single Freenet SSK@/USK@ keypair
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
\fBfcpgenkey\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
fcpgenkey is a simple command\-line FCP client program for generating
new Freenet SSK@ or USK@ public/private keypairs.
.LP
The keypair generated is written to standard output stream as SSK@
keys, with the public key, then a newline, then the private key.
.SH "Equivalence between SSKs and USKs"
.LP
USK@ are really just a user-friendly wrapper around SSK@, which hide
the process of searching for more recent versions of a site. Any
address written using an USK@ key can also be written using an SSK@
key.
.TP
.B
Syntax of USK@ key:
USK@<key>/<name_of_site>/<version#>/
.TP
.B
Syntax of equivalent SSK@ key:
SSK@<key>/<name_of_site>-<version#>/
.TP
.B
These two keys are completely equivalent and can be inserted as either one:
USK@z6lnO...ACAAE/freenetdocwiki/17/
.br
SSK@z6lnO...ACAAE/freenetdocwiki-17/
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information and exit
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit
.TP 
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-fcpHost=<hostname>\fR
Use FCP interface at host <hostname>,
defaults to 127.0.0.1
.TP 
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-fcpPort=<port>\fR
Use FCP interface at port <port>
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout=<timeout>\fR
Set the timeout, in seconds, for completion. Default one year.
.LP 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBFCP_HOST\fP
Specifies the hostname of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-H'.
.TP 
\fBFCP_PORT\fP
Specifies the port number of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-P'.
.LP 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
\fBfcpgenkey > keys.txt\fP
Generate a keypair and save it to \fIkeys.txt\fP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.LP
If you find a bug, please post it to the Freenet bug tracker at:
.RS
.LP    
https://bugs.freenetproject.org/bug_report_page.php
.RE
.LP
but first please be sure to target the 'pyFreenet' project, by
selecting 'pyFreenet' in the combobox on the top-right of the page.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The PyFCP applications and library were originally written
by David McNab (aum) in May-June, 2006 and are maintained
by the Freenet Project team.
.LP
Contact the original author at: <davidmcnabnz@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
fcpinvertkey(1) fcpput(1) freesitemgr(1)

