.TH "fcpinvertkey" "1" "0.2.5" "aum" "pyfcp - Freenet FCP tools"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
fcpinvertkey \- Convert an SSK/USK private URI to its public equivalent
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
\fBfcpput\fP [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIprivate_uri\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
fcpinvertkey is a simple command\-line FCP client program which converts
an SSK or USK private URI to its public equivalent
.LP
The private URI is read from the specified URI, if given, or from standard
input. The public counterpart URI is calculated, and printed to
standard output.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information and exit
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit
.TP 
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-fcpHost=<hostname>\fR
Use FCP interface at host <hostname>,
defaults to 127.0.0.1
.TP 
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-fcpPort=<port>\fR
Use FCP interface at port <port>
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout=<timeout>\fR
Set the timeout, in seconds, for completion. Default one year.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP 
\fBFCP_HOST\fP
Specifies the hostname of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-H'.
.TP 
\fBFCP_PORT\fP
Specifies the port number of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-P'.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
\fBfcpinvertkey freenet:SSK@cjN~TIPa6KefZJ92RhMsGnKTAzn8YFaaMQZ\-LNaNPQA,17ekRvbuBmWUWI492EQ2Zr3R9HQqLU2MvpnvbTLM~oE/\fP
Converts this private URI to its public equivalent, and writes to
stdout the URI:

\fBfreenet:SSK@Hw46aoG1Is\-L5KsLRfRIlKMKE9qD\-T1iO6Yu6DSpmWM,17ekRvbuBmWUWI492EQ2Zr3R9HQqLU2MvpnvbTLM~oE,AQABAAE/\fR 
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.LP
If you find a bug, please post it to the Freenet bug tracker at:
.RS
.LP    
https://bugs.freenetproject.org/bug_report_page.php
.RE
.LP
but first please be sure to target the 'pyFreenet' project, by
selecting 'pyFreenet' in the combobox on the top-right of the page.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The PyFCP applications and library were originally written
by David McNab (aum) in May-June, 2006 and are maintained
by the Freenet Project team.
.LP
Contact the original author at: <davidmcnabnz@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
fcpgenkey(1)
