.TH "fcpnames" "1" "0.2.1" "Freenet Project" "pyFreenet"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
fcpnames \- Manage pyFreenet name services layer
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
\fBfcpnames\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIcommand\fP [\fIarguments\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
\fBfcpnames\fP is a command\-line freenet client program
for managing pyFreenet \fBname services\fR.
.LP
Use of this program is controlled by the \fIcommand\fP argument
you give it.
.LP
run \fBfcpnames \-h\fP for a detailed help output.
.SH "INTRODUCTION"
.LP
One feature of freenet that can make life difficult for
users is the long URIs. These can be easily emailed, cut
and pasted, but they are very human\-unfriendly. For example,
try dictating a USK URI to someone over a secure VoIP phone
connection!
.LP
The 'name service' layer is an experimental feature of pyFreenet,
and is designed so that it will not interfere with conventional
usage unless you want it to.
.LP
It works in a manner vaguely akin to DNS, whereby tables are kept
which map human\-friendly names to freenet URIs.
.LP
The way it works is that you, as a pyFreenet user, can maintain
zero or more 'name services', each of which contain a mapping
of human\-friendly names to URIs.
.LP
You may keep these name services to yourself, or you may make
them available to other users. It's your choice.
.LP
A typical sequence of operation is:
.RS
.LP
1) Alice creates a local name service called (say) 'alice'.
.LP
2) Alice adds one or more records to this name service
.LP
3) Alice gives Bob the name and uri of this name service
.LP
4) Bob imports these details as a 'peer namesite' into his own
pyFreenet installation
.LP
5) Bob can perform explicit lookups on human\-friendly names. If the
name he's looking for is in one of his own local name services,
the name will be resolved quickly. Otherwise, pyFreenet will look in
all of Bob's 'peer namesites', which in this case is just Alice's
namesite.
.RE
.LP
The pyFreenet programs \fBfcpget(1)\fR and \fBfcpput(1)\fR
(as well as the underlying FCPNode methods \fB.get()\fR
and \fB.put()\fR) make implicit use of this name service
whenever the user gives a
non\-freenet URI (ie, not beginning with [freenet:]KSK@|SSK@|CHK@|USK@|SVK@)
.SH "NAMESITES"
A 'namesite' can be defined as a set of USK URIs which share the
same SSK public key part.
.LP
For example, if Alice's namesite has the base URI
\fBUSK@yadayada\fR, and if this namesite has two records:
.RS
.LP
\fBfoo\fR \-> \fBKSK@bar\fR
.RE
.LP
and
.RS
.LP
\fBglitters\fR \-> \fBKSK@gold\fR,
.RE
.LP
then Alice's namesite will exist as two keys in freenet,
\fBUSK@yadayada/foo/0\fR and \fBUSK@yadayada/glitters/0\fR.
.LP
These two keys will contain the strings
\fBKSK@bar\fR and \fBKSK@gold\fR respectively.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information and exit
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit
.TP 
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\-file=\fIdir\fR
Sets config file (default ~/.freenames)
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose output to the stderr stream. Can be given
twice to enable FCP transcripts, or more to enable more
detailed debugging information
.TP 
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-logfile=\fIlogfile\fR
location of logfile (default stdout)
.SH "COMMANDS"
.TP 
\fBhelp\fP
Synonym for \fB\-h\fR or \fB\-\-help\fR, displays a help page
.TP 
\fBnewservice \fIname\fR [\fIprivuri\fR]
Creates a new local name service called \fIname\fR, which 
either uses \fIprivuri\fR as its private URI (if given),
or a new randomly\-generated private URI.
.TP 
\fBdelservice \fIname\fR
Removes the local name service \fIname\fR, and deletes all its
records.
.TP 
\fBlistservices\fP
Print out a list of local name services, as lines in the form

\fIname\fR \fIpuburi\fR

Other users can import a \fIname\fR \fIpuburi\fR
pair into their own pyFreenet installation
as a 'peer namesite', using the \fBaddpeer\fR command.
.TP 
\fBdumpservice \fIlocalname\fP
Print out a list of the 'domain records' for local name service
\fIlocalname\fR, as a set of lines in the form

\fIdomainname\fR \fItargeturi\fR

Each \fIdomainname\fR is the human\-friendly
'domain name' and the \fItargeturi\fR is the physical freenet URI it
resolves to.
.TP 
\fBaddpeer \fIpeername\fR \fIpeerURI\fR
Adds a peer namesite to the local pyFreenet installation.
The arguments \fIpeername\fR \fIpeerURI\fR can be obtained
from doing a \fBlistservices\fR or \fBlistpeers\fR command
on another pyFreenet installation.
.TP 
\fBdelpeer \fIpeername\fR
Removes peer namesite \fIpeername\fR
.TP 
\fBlistpeers\fR
Prints a list of peer namesites, as a set of lines in the form:

\fIpeer\-name\fR \fIpeer\-base\-URI\fR

You can share these peer specs with other users, which they can import
with the \fBaddpeer\fR command
.TP 
\fBaddrecord \fIlocalname\fR \fIdomainname\fR \fIURI\fR
Adds a record to local name service \fIlocalname\fR, which maps
the 'human\-friendly' 'domain name' \fIdomainname\fR to the
URI \fIURI\fR.
.TP 
\fBdelrecord \fIlocalname\fR \fIdomainname\fR
Removes a 'domain name' record for \fIdomainname\fR
from local namesite \fIlocalname\fR
.TP 
\fBlookup \fIdomainname\fR
Tries to resolve the human\-friendly name \fIdomainname\fR
to a corresponding freenet URI. This command first searches
all the local name services, and if no record is found,
tries all the peer namesites (in the order they were added)
until the record is finally found. If the record is eventually
found, the URI is printed to standard output. Otherwise,
nothing will be printed to standard output, and this program
will return with an error code of 1.
.SH "FILES"
.LP
fcpnames keeps all its records of local name services and
their contents, as well as peer namesites, in the file
\fB~/.freenames\fR.
.LP
You can override this with the \fB\-c \fIfilename\fR argument.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP 
\fBFCP_HOST\fP
Specifies the hostname of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-H'.
.TP 
\fBFCP_PORT\fP
Specifies the port number of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-P'.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.LP
If you find a bug, please post it to the Freenet bug tracker at:
.RS
.LP    
https://bugs.freenetproject.org/bug_report_page.php
.RE
.LP
but first please be sure to target the 'pyFreenet' project, by
selecting 'pyFreenet' in the combobox on the top-right of the page.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The pyFreenet applications and library were originally written
by David McNab (aum) in May-June, 2006 and are maintained
by the Freenet Project team.
.LP
Contact the original author at: <davidmcnabnz@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
fproxyproxy(1)
