.TH "fcpput" "1" "0.1.4" "aum" "pyfcp - Freenet FCP tools"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
fcpput \- Insert single key, or directory, into Freenet
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
\fBfcpput\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIkey_uri\fP [\fIfilename\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
fcpput is a simple command\-line FCP client program for inserting
keys or directories into Freenet.

If the program completes successfully, it will print to standard
output a \fIfreenet URI\fP under which the key can be later retrieved.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information and exit
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable very verbose output, including FCP transcripts,
to the stderr stream.
.TP 
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-fcpHost=<hostname>\fR
Use FCP interface at host <hostname>,
defaults to 127.0.0.1
.TP 
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-fcpPort=<port>\fR
Use FCP interface at port <port>
.TP 
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mimetype=<mimetype>\fR
Specify the mimetype under which the key is to be
inserted. If not specified, the program will try
to guess a mimetype from the input file extension
(if present), or from a 'file extension' suffix on
the URI. If neither of these are present, default
mimetype is text/plain.
.TP 
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-priority=\fIpriority\fR
Sets priority to \fIpriority\fR. Valid values are
0 (highest) to 6 (lowest). Default is 4.

.LP 

.SH "FILES"
.TP 
\fBnone\fP
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBFCP_HOST\fP
Specifies the hostname of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-H'.
.TP 
\fBFCP_PORT\fP
Specifies the port number of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-P'.

.LP 

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
\fBfcpput KSK@somekey filename.html\fP
Insert file \fIfilename.html\fP as URI \fIKSK@somekey\fP

.TP 
\fBsomeprog | fcpput KSK@somekey\fP
Run a program, and insert its standard output
as URI \fIKSK@somekey\fP

.TP 
\fBfcpput \-H 192.168.10.4 CHK@/fred.jpg somefile\fP
Using the FCP service on host \fI192.168.10.4\fP,
insert \fIsomefile\fP as a CHK, with the implied
mimetype of \fIimage/jpeg\fP. The final CHK URI under
which this key can be later retrieved will be printed to stdout.
.LP 

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
aum <david@rebirthing.co.nz>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
fcpget(1) fcpgenkey(1) freesitemgr(1)

