.TH "fcpredirect" "1" "0.2.5" "Freenet Project" "pyFreenet"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
fcpredirect \- insert a freenet URI, as a redirect to another URI
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
\fBfcpredirect\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIsrc_uri\fR \fItarget_uri\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
fcpredirect is a simple command\-line FCP client program which inserts
a URI into freenet, as a redirect to another URI.
.LP
Note the order of arguments \- you specify the 'source' first, and
the 'target' second. This is the opposite of commands
such as 'ln'.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information and exit
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable very verbose output, including FCP transcripts,
to the stderr stream.
.TP 
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-fcpHost=<hostname>\fR
Use FCP interface at host <hostname>,
defaults to 127.0.0.1
.TP 
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-fcpPort=<port>\fR
Use FCP interface at port <port>
.LP 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBFCP_HOST\fP
Specifies the hostname of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-H'.
.TP 
\fBFCP_PORT\fP
Specifies the port number of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-P'.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
\fBfcpredirect KSK@glitters KSK@gold\fR
Inserts a new key \fBKSK@glitters\fR, which when retrieved redirects
to the key \fBKSK@gold\fR
.SH "BUGS"
.LP
The --verbose option doesn't make fcpredirect output anything. There
is no timeout capability.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.LP
If you find a bug, please post it to the Freenet bug tracker at:
.RS
.LP    
https://bugs.freenetproject.org/bug_report_page.php
.RE
.LP
but first please be sure to target the 'pyFreenet' project, by
selecting 'pyFreenet' in the combobox on the top-right of the page.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The pyFreenet applications and library were originally written
by David McNab (aum) in May-June, 2006 and are maintained
by the Freenet Project team.
.LP
Contact the original author at: <davidmcnabnz@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
fcpget(1) fcpput(1) freesitemgr(1) fcpinvertkey(1) fcpgenkey(1)
