.TH "freesitemgr" "1" "0.1.4" "aum" "pyfcp - Freenet FCP tools"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
freesitemgr \- Insert or re\-insert freesites into freenet

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
\fBfreesitemgr\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIcommand\fP [\fIarguments\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
\fBfreesitemgr\fP is a simple command\-line freenet client program
for inserting \fBfreesites\fP.

Use of this program is controlled by the \fIcommand\fP argument
you give it.

run \fBfreesitemgr \-h\fP for a detailed help output.

Note that this is a new, rewritten version of freesitemgr, designed
to be extremely fault\-tolerant. If you interrupt freesitemgr,
or if the freenet node dies, halfway through an insert, then you can
simply re\-run freesitemgr, and it will pick up where it left off.
This new resilience is a response to public demand, and the needs
of users wanting to insert large freesites with high file counts.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information and exit
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit
.TP 
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\-dir=\fIdir\fR
Sets config directory (default ~/.freesitemgr/)
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose output to the stderr stream. Can be given
twice to enable FCP transcripts, or more to enable more
detailed debugging information
.TP 
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Run quietly
.TP 
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-priority=\fIpriority\fR
Set the FCP priority for inserts. Valid values are between
0 (highest) to 6 (lowest), default is 3. For large freesites,
please do not set this to 0, 1 or 2.
.TP 
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-logfile=\fIlogfile\fR
location of logfile (default stdout)
.TP 
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-cron\fR
Set options suitable for use of freesitemgr in your crontab.
This will cause freesitemgr to output dated headers and set
one verbosity level.

For example, to run freesitemgr at 4am each day,
you could put in your crontab:

\fB0 4 * * * freesitemgr \-C update >> ~/freesitemgr.log\fR
.TP 
\fB\-\-chk\-calculation\-node=\fIhostname[:port]\fR
Sets a different freenet node to be used for CHK pre\-calculation phase of
site insertion. This can save huge amounts of time
in cases where one is inserting to
a remote node over a relatively slow link, but has access to a closer node
on a faster link (or running on the local machine), and doesn't want
to use the closer node for the actual inserts.

.LP 

.SH "COMMANDS"
.LP 
.TP 

\fBhelp\fP
Synonym for \fB\-h\fR or \fB\-\-help\fR, displays a help page
.TP 

\fBsetup\fP
Create or modify the freesite config file (\fB~/.freesitemgr/.config\fP)
interactively.
.TP 

\fBadd\fP
Add a new freesite interactively
.TP 

\fBlist \fIsitename [sitename...]\fP
display a summary of all freesites, or a
detailed report of one or more site(s) if \fIsitename\fR given
.TP 

\fBlistall\fP
display a detailed report of all freesites
.TP 

\fBremove \fIsitename\fP [\fIsitename\fR...]
remove given freesite
.TP 

\fBupdate \fIsitename\fP [\fIsitename\fR...]
This command checks on any existing
update jobs, and ticks required items off the queue. Also, it
checks all freesites for changes, and if any have changed, it
launches insert jobs that are required to bring the freesite up to date.
If the freesite was already being inserted, no action will be taken.
Note that this command will not wait for new/changed freesites to
be fully inserted, it will instead exit and leave the insertions
on the freenet node global queue.
You can safely add a 'freesitemgr update' command to your crontab.
If one or more \fIsitename\fR values are given, then only those
freesites will be updated. Otherwise, all freesites will be updated.
.TP 

\fBcancel \fIsitename\fR [\fIsitename\fR...]
Cancel the insertion of one or more
site(s) \fIsitename\fR. Removes its entries
from the freenet node global queue, and reset its control file
back to an idle state.
.TP 

\fBcleanup \fIsitename\fR [\fIsitename\fR...]
Cleans up the node queue in respect of inserts for the given site(s)
\fIsitename\fR. Removes queue entries for inserts that have been
completed, and updates local site record in ~/.freesitemgr/\fIsitename\fR.

.LP 

.SH "FILES"
freesitemgr keeps track of all freesite insertions in a directory
chosen by the user.

The default directory is \fB~/.freesitemgr/\fP. All files within this
directory are in Python syntax (for easy reading and hacking).

This directory contains a file called \fB.config\fP, which holds
global configuration information for freesitemgr.

Each other file has a name which is the name of the freesite as allocated
by the user. For instance, a freesite \fBfoo\fR will be tracked 
in the file \fB~/.freesitemgr/foo\fR.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBFCP_HOST\fP
Specifies the hostname of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-H'.
.TP 
\fBFCP_PORT\fP
Specifies the port number of the FCP interface. This value
will be used unless overridden with '\-P'.

.LP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
The PyFCP applications and library were originally written
by David McNab (aum) in May-June, 2006 and are maintained
by the Freenet Project team.
.LP
Contact the original author at: <davidmcnabnz@gmail.com>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.LP
If you find a bug, please post it to the Freenet bug tracker at:
.RS
.LP    
https://bugs.freenetproject.org/bug_report_page.php
.RE
.LP
but first please be sure to target the 'pyFreenet' project, by
selecting 'pyFreenet' in the combobox on the top-right of the page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
fcpget(1) fcpput(1) fcpgenkey(1) fcpinvertkey(1) fcpredirect(1)

